We extend our warm welcome to all of you.
We're so happy to have you join us for this month's broadcast.
Here's a little sample of what will be contained in our program.
Proverbs 3.5 tells us to trust in Jehovah with all our heart.
We'll see how three brothers facing different challenges
overcame them by trusting in Jehovah completely.
Though personal attacks may start small, being bullied
can quickly make you feel alone and worth this wondering why me?
In this month's My Teen Life, we'll hear how Charlie and Farron
learned a cope with bullies and grew stronger and more confident as a result.
And in a new dramatization, we'll reconnect with two dear friends,
Nita and Jade and see how they remain loyal when confronted
with false reports about the truth.
Yes, there's much to look forward to.
In the September 2022 edition of JW Broadcasting,
the theme for this program is as Jehovah sheep reject the voice of strangers.
It's estimated that there may be 15 million animal species on earth today.
But of all these animals, which one is most often used in the Bible
to represent good people? Sheep. Jesus often uses illustration.
Here are three examples. First, to his twelve apostles,
he said at Matthew 10.16, I am sending you out as sheep among wolves.
Second, regarding what he'll do shortly before Armageddon,
he said at Matthew 25.32 and 33 that he will separate people
one from another just as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats.
In subsequent verses, he describes how the sheep will inherit everlasting life.
But the goats will depart into everlasting destruction.
Our third example, Jesus said, at John 10.16,
I have other sheep which are not of this fold.
Those two I must bring in and they will listen to my voice
and they will become one flock, one shepherd.
But a question arises, why did Jesus use a sheep illustration
to represent people who will gain everlasting life?
Undoubtedly, because of the desirable qualities literal sheep have.
They're gregarious, having a liking for companionship.
They don't like to be alone.
And it's a good thing, because without the flock in the protection of the shepherd,
they're defenseless if a lion or bear approaches.
About all they can do is bleat.
Goodbye, little sheep.
Another good quality is that sheep has a whole tend to be peaceful,
inoffensive, very different from goats.
As little boys, my brother and I would pet the goats that my grandfather had.
But if we turned our backs on them, one would often sneak up behind us
and but us for no reason.
These are some of the desirable characteristics that make sheep
an appropriate illustration for good people.
But the quality we especially want to focus on
is identified at John chapter 10, verses 4 and 5.
When he, that is the shepherd, has brought all his own out,
he goes ahead of them.
And the sheep follow him, because they know his voice.
They will, by no means, follow a stranger, but will flee from him,
because they do not know the voice of strangers.
So what's the desirable quality?
Sheep listened to the voice of their shepherd
and reject the voice of strangers.
Regarding this quality of sheep,
the Septimifers 2004 watchtower said this.
A book on Bible lands relates that a visitor once claimed
that sheep recognize their shepherd by his dress, not his voice.
A shepherd answered that it was the voice they knew.
To prove this, he exchanged clothing with a stranger.
Dressed in the shepherd's garb, the stranger called the sheep,
but they did not respond.
They did not know his voice.
Yet when the shepherd called them, though he was disguised,
the sheep came at once.
Please ask yourself,
as one of Jehovah's figurative sheep,
do I obediently respond to the voice of the fine shepherd
and flee from the voice of strangers?
Well, let's talk about this.
The original stranger was Satan the Devil.
Like a ventriloquist, he made a serpent appear to top,
but the words were Satan's words.
Satan thereby used his voice to slander Jehovah and deceive Eve.
Today, Satan continues his work as an evil ventriloquist
using not serpents, but human puppets
to enunciate his voice these acting as his agents,
either wittingly or unwittingly.
But now, let's discuss three examples of how a fine shepherd
tells us one thing, but Satan's underlings or strangers
tell us something opposite.
We must be vigilant to listen to the right voice.
Our fine shepherd tells us, as our first example,
these words at Matthew chapter 24, verses 45 to 47,
who really is the fateful and discreet slave
whom his master appointed over his domestics
to give them their food at the proper time.
Happy is that slave if his master on a coming finds him doing so?
Truly I say to you, he will appoint him over all his belongings.
We know the master Jesus found the fateful and discreet slave
spiritually feeding right-hearted ones in 1919.
And at a future time, we'll appoint him over all his belongings.
So what's the implication?
Obviously, even now, Jesus fully trusts the fateful slave.
And all of us, even individual members of the governing body,
should do the same.
But what does the voice of strangers say on this subject?
Don't trust the fateful slave.
He will mislead you.
And who often have the loudest voice promoting this false message?
Upostates.
Hebrews 139 labels false messages as strange teachings.
Yes, they are the teachings of strangers.
Some examples of their strange teachings
are that the fateful slave protects pedophiles.
Or that slave will exploit you so they can live lives of luxury.
Those are both bald-faced lies.
Acts 2030 says that apostate speak twisted things.
They do this in order to draw God's sheep away
and make them followers of themselves.
Something that's twisted is been out of shape or distorted.
They speak twisted things by leaving out vital details,
taking things out of context.
Or in some other way manipulating a truth into a lie
or into a misleading half-truth.
Second Peter 2.3 says,
they will greedily exploit you with counterfeit words.
A counterfeit is something that's carefully designed to look like the real thing.
Take, for example, counterfeit money.
It might look genuine, but it's fake and thus worthless.
If we're deceived into accepting it, we'll lose money.
But if we're deceived into accepting the counterfeit words of apostate,
we'll lose our life.
And apostates will give us absolutely nothing of value in exchange.
Can you imagine really needing a loving, shepherding visit?
And asking apostates to give you one?
Similarly, we must be careful about believing everything presented in the media
about Jehovah's organization.
Remember, the media is commonly motivated by prejudice, hatred,
and a desire for profit.
False and exaggerated news reports are very common.
For example, in one European country, many people were indignant
when an emotional press report stated that a young female witness died
because she refused a blood transfusion.
Were those the complete facts?
No.
The patient refused a blood transfusion on religious grounds,
but she did agree to alternative non-blood medical management.
This could have been implemented immediately,
and likely would have saved her life.
However, the hospital delayed matters unnecessarily until it was too late.
The press report didn't mention these facts.
While it's unreasonable to distrust all secular sources of information,
we must be wary.
First John 5.19 says,
The whole world is lying in the power of the wicked one.
Now, let's discuss a second example of the voice of our fine shepher Jesus.
Matthew chapter 5 verses 27 and 28.
Jesus said,
You heard that it was said you must not commit adultery.
But I say to you that everyone who keeps on looking at a woman
so as to have a passion for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart.
Our fine shepherd is telling us not only to avoid sexual immorality,
but also to flee from anything that could lead to it, such as immoral thoughts.
And at Matthew 19.9, our fine shepherd tells us,
I say to you that whoever divorces his wife except on the grounds of sexual immorality
and marries another commits adultery.
Here Jesus makes clear that the only valid basis for divorce and remarriage in God's eyes
is if a disloyal mate commits sexual immorality.
But what's the voice of strangers of Satan's world telling us regarding divorce,
adultery, and other forms of sexual immorality?
No problem. It's your choice.
You have the freedom to do what you want.
In fact, in order to make sexual immorality appear more innocent,
it's often euphemized.
Sexual perversion, such as homosexuality, is called an alternative lifestyle.
One so-called expert said,
it's simply like being left-handed.
Pornography is called adult entertainment.
Adulterous betrayal of one's marriage mate is called having an affair.
Many call getting married old-fashioned and see nothing wrong with living together without marriage.
And this world's media is very skillful at presenting something bad as good.
For example, in a movie, a female character might be portrayed as having a husband who is abusive.
You like the woman, and you want her to find happiness.
Then a handsome man starts working in her office, and he's so nice to her.
There's an attraction between them, and the budding romance is presented as something good.
Soft background music makes it hard to consider her course to be bad.
It's easy to keep watching, and hope she leaves her marriage mate and runs off with a workmate.
And usually that's what happens.
So easily we can forget that Jehovah and Jesus hate adultery and unscriptural divorce.
But when we reject the voice of this world and listen to the voice of Jehovah and Jesus,
we bring protection and blessings to ourselves and others.
But now our third example of the voice of our fine shepherd is at Matthew 6,
and we're going to read verses 19 and 20.
Stop storing up for yourselves treasures on the earth, where moth and rust consume,
and where thieves break in and steal.
Rather, store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust consumes,
and where thieves do not break in and steal.
We're told that our focus should be on spiritual things and not on physical things.
And this is especially true when thinking about where we are in the stream of time,
in the final part of the final part of the last days.
But what's the voice of strangers of this world on this subject?
Exert yourself vigorously to acquire material possessions.
Pursue things that will make your life comfortable, because that is what will bring you happiness.
The question is, to whom are we listening?
Jehovah and Jesus tell us to be content now with a spiritual paradise,
and to concentrate on our lifesaving preaching work, and that they will provide a physical paradise later.
First Peter 2.11 indicates that we should view ourselves as temporary residents,
who are just passing through this old system and headed for the real life in the new world.
What do we mean by temporary resident?
Imagine that you rent an old house to live in, while a new, beautiful house is being built for you.
You'll live there only a few months.
Would you install a new concrete driveway?
Would you put in new electrical wiring and plumbing?
Would you install brand new vinyl siding?
No!
You might do a few cosmetic things to make your stay a little more comfortable, but you wouldn't do anything major.
Why? Because you know you're just a temporary resident, and that soon you'll move into your beautiful new home.
Well, if we think of ourselves, just as temporary residents in this old system, it'll be a real protection against the materialism
that is promoted by the voice of strangers.
We've now discussed three examples of Jesus' voice.
Number one, trust the fateful and discreet slave.
Two, reject sexual immorality and unscriptural divorce.
Three, focus on storing up spiritual treasures rather than material treasures.
Of course, there are many other examples of these two different voices, but may we all be vigilant to listen to the right voice.
Of Jesus, Jehovah Himself said,
This is my son, the beloved, whom I have approved.
Listen to him.
But in order to do so obediently as Jehovah's sheep, we must reject the voice of strangers.
But how would you handle things if the voice of strangers was brought to you by someone close?
A friend, or perhaps even a family member.
That's what Jade faces in the following dramatization.
How will she learn to reject the voice of strangers in a sensitive situation?
Amen.
Smells wonderful.
Oh, wait, of course.
You should cook every night.
If you clean every night?
No, we'll take it in turns.
But this looks amazing.
Thanks.
It's a practice for my first guest.
Really? Who?
My mum.
That's wonderful.
We had our first phone call in a year that wasn't a total disaster, so I invited her around tomorrow.
It'll go great.
Hi, mum.
Hello, love.
Come in.
Nice to see you.
Nice to see you too.
Yeah, we take that.
Oh, thanks, and I love you.
You're roommates.
You say the explorer is.
The pioneers.
They preach full-time, but they work part-time.
I see.
But you?
No.
Not yet anyway.
Jade love.
All this.
I see it's made to a better person.
Heaven knows I tried.
But I miss bits of the old Jade.
Bits.
What bits?
Where's the Jade that questioned everything?
So then, she pulls out her phone, start showing me stuff about witnesses.
What kind of stuff?
News, stories, all negative and slanted.
I tried to change the subject, but she just kept out of it.
See you later, girls.
Oh, bye.
My pleasure.
Sorry, I am.
I gotta get ready.
Oh, how long are you gonna be gone for?
I told my daughter it's too hot here for me.
Been better.
I need to say that your mother visited.
I hope you don't mind.
No.
Mum's driving me mad.
It's like it's her hobby to ruin my life.
And my daughter got back.
You opposed your daughter.
And didn't want to lose her.
I'm not going anywhere.
Of course not, but a worried mother doesn't know that.
I got to go over scripture for you.
When you read it, remember, your mum is not the stranger.
John chapter 10 and verse 5.
They will by no means follow a stranger,
but will flee from him,
because they do not know the voice of strangers.
Mum is not the stranger.
It's what she shares.
We check the voice.
Not bad.
Did you look at those links that I sent you?
Mum.
I want us to get together,
but I won't hear anything negative about my beliefs.
Perhaps we just won't talk religion.
Is it deal then?
All right then.
I can see I'm not going to get anywhere.
So what subject do you want to talk about?
The deal fell apart.
Fast.
Jade.
I know we weren't going to talk religion,
but I must tell you this one thing that I read.
Mum.
I thought we weren't going to talk about this.
Just getting late.
I'm going to go.
Thanks for dinner.
I'll quit tomorrow.
Jade, I got an alert this morning,
and I'm really confused about this.
Mum's about this.
No, I don't mind.
I was sure this wouldn't work.
It happened.
Jade.
I'd like to change our agreement.
If I ask you what you believe,
you get to answer.
Sure answers, I won't be converting.
Is the deal then?
Yeah, it's a deal.
How wise it was for Jade to distinguish
between the dangerous falsehoods
about Jehovah's people
and the person unwittingly promoting them.
Jade took a clear stand,
but she also patiently showed
that she loved her mother.
This not only protected Jade
from dangerous thinking,
but also helped her mother.
Unfortunately,
as our children grow in a 10-school,
many face a modern scourge.
Buying.
How can they overcome the fear
and negative feelings
that being bullied causes?
We'll listen to two of our teenagers share
what worked for them
in this addition of my teen life.
My experience with bullying
ultimately started in physical education.
When this kid who shared a locker
or a few spaces away from me
took that opportunity
to verbally attack me.
I first experienced bullying
in elementary school,
but it was a little stuff.
Nothing too big.
In middle school,
it was really, really something.
It was upsetting
that I was being bullied.
It made me feel like
I was doing something wrong.
Why did I have to be the target?
It got really personal.
They told me names.
He would say that
it wasn't good at anything.
They would care about me,
that I was dumb,
that I was weak.
Especially after he found out
that I was a witness
and the text just got even more intense.
There was one day specifically
that was really bad.
It started in a classroom.
I heard one girl talk to another girl
about me right in front of me.
And these were lies.
We went to lunch
and I was cornered again.
Is this how middle school is going to be?
I don't have anybody to be with
to hang out with during school.
Because everybody doesn't like me.
I felt no one like me.
It was the worst day ever.
I no longer felt that I was valuable at that point.
I was starting to feel more
that I was this weak person.
That I was defenseless
and that I had no one cared about me
and that I was worthless to anybody.
So hearing that over and over
really took a toll on my mental health
and my emotional health.
I think of my lowest point
after receiving so many of these vicious attacks.
I started to have really, really dark feelings
and I realized that I
shouldn't let this go any further
than it already is.
That was the moment when I knew I had to get help.
I told my parents about it of course
and especially on the worst day
I told them everything.
My parents always brought up scriptures.
Proverbs 27-12.
Anytime I saw the bullies
I would avoid as much as possible.
Another thing that I was always doing
was praying constantly.
Always praying.
Before school, during school,
after school,
there were times that would go into the library
and just read books,
just stayed in myself.
During those times I would also pray
to Jehovah and he was a friend to me.
He was somebody that I could speak to
on this matter.
I did end up talking to my parents about it.
They let me get my side of the story out.
They were listening and they wanted to help out.
And they made me feel loved.
I definitely took this time
to reach out to the elders
and they really encouraged me
and assured me that
that I was not only somewhere
where I was needed.
I was also somewhere where I was wanted.
I took some practical steps.
I moved my locker.
I made sure I had to retaliate.
Walk away is something very powerful.
It's something that's weak
because you're giving into your emotions
and you're just lashing out.
Eventually the bully got suspended
which gave me some peace.
I ended up coming back
after a week
and he started up again with the attack.
I noticed that he hadn't changed at all
but I had.
I was much more confident
with that change.
I began to fear him less.
I wasn't scared of him.
There were other young people
as scriptures that you pick out
everything really, really helps.
And you can either see the situation
die down or it's not as bad.
You can deal with it
or it just stops
and it was so encouraging for me
and it helped strengthen my faith
in seeing how
Jehovah really is there to help.
Don't keep this to yourself.
Don't bottle it up
because that'll make things worse.
Won't go away because you ignore it.
You need to talk to someone.
Talk to your parents.
Talk to your friend. Talk to Jehovah.
Talk to someone in the congregation.
Because if you don't know what to do
they'll help you find out what to do.
And I'll give you guidance.
And you'll be so impressed
by how much Jehovah takes care of you
and he'll show you that you are loved by him.
Our love by Jehovah.
So if you're suffering
at the hands of a bully
you are not alone.
Talk to your parents.
It won't go away if you ignore it.
But Jehovah can help you face up to bullies
and you can trust Bible principles
because they always work.
And they work across a wide range of challenges.
In our next video
see how three brothers
learned that trust completely
in Jehovah and his righteous principles
when confronted
with persecution
in moral influences
and the snare
of pride.
Proverbs 35 and 6
made a tremendous impression on me.
Trust in Jehovah
with all your heart.
When I was younger I probably said,
all right, let me try it and see if it works.
As much as I loved
what I was learning from Jehovah
I was still leaning a lot
of my own understanding.
Obviously when we make decisions
in our lives, a spiritual person
they review and think,
let's do this Jehovah's way.
And that was something that I had lost
side of at that moment in my life.
There was considerable
opposition to the work.
We expected
when we did street work
we might be picked up
and taken a jail.
But Jehovah's organization
had explained to us
how we worked a hand-lit.
I do remember when the police
finally picked me up
and they drove me down to Chicago.
It was about an hour's drive
and they asked me,
so what did you do wrong?
So I had one hour to witness to them.
And as I recall
I kept track of it
and I counted the time too.
Things didn't disturb us
because we were being trained
by Jehovah's organization.
We knew what to do.
So I ended up in a jail
in Chicago for a weekend
and there was nothing I could do about it.
So I put up with it.
So I was home for a day or two
and then I went back to my assignment
and I kept on working.
Left the rest in Jehovah's hands
and they handled it very nicely.
Whether we were in jail
or whether we were not.
Eventually,
I stumbled upon the punk rock
anarchist scene.
And this really called out to me
because here I can be myself
I can establish my own standards.
But that scene eventually
led me down to a very dark path
of immorality, drug abuse,
drunkenness,
and a lot of violence.
I felt lonely, I felt betrayed,
I felt nothing made sense.
I remember thinking back on the wind
I was learning about Jehovah
and how simple things were.
I decided to give Jehovah
another shot.
Reading Matthew 1624
hit me really hard
or where it says that
to this own yourself
because I knew that scripture
but I still haven't really focused
on what it meant for me.
I knew I had to
let go a certain
parts of my personality
of my old lifestyle.
Never really given Jehovah
a complete fair chance.
And so I started applying more
fully to principles I found
so I trust in Jehovah more.
Very quickly things started falling
into place, the determination
that I had to serve them,
the changes that I needed to make,
the changes that I never thought I could.
Appointments and assignments.
I think pride got the best
to me there.
Very shortly after we got
to the congregation in Brooklyn
I'm out in service with the
coordinator and he says to me
the letter came back
and you weren't recommended
as a servant.
Do you know what happened?
So I said, well you know
I think those brothers have some
problems over there.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
Stop for a second here.
You don't need to tell me
anything negative about the
brothers and that all.
Focus on what you need to do
and Jehovah will take care
of the rest of it.
It really did feel like Jehovah
was just saying, okay stop.
Right now you need to focus on you
and that really just allowed me
to relax and focus on what was
really a lot more important
position in Jehovah's organization.
The humility and the patience
and the love and the adjustments
that I needed to make being a
more obedient servant of Jehovah
those were the things that were so
important that I had
had forgotten about for a while.
All the time that I spent
pursuing my own interests
it always led to disappointment
and now that I've learned
about Jehovah and
living by his principles
I have been having the time of my life.
To know that Jehovah
just simply wants to make me the best
version of me and teach me
to enhance my personality
and to become better
that really
endeared me to Jehovah.
Jehovah really cared
about me
enough to mold my thinking.
It was kind of like
my life was back in the focus
and I was able to just relax
and serve Jehovah
happily.
And then of course
the blessing started really pouring
in after that.
Everything I've done
connection with the truth
I have enjoyed every speck of it.
You might have something great idea
but I found out
you do things Jehovah's way
and the end result is
nothing but good.
Isn't it wonderful
that Jehovah cares so much
that he takes the time
to mold our thinking
and help us be
the best possible version
of ourselves?
And what a life lesson
from Brother Adams.
Do things
Jehovah's way
and the end result
will be nothing but
good.
With success like that.
Why would we try any other way?
Or as this month's
music video asks
to whom could I go away?
Enjoy this faith
strengthening original song.
Listen to Jesus
in these troublesome days
He lights up my path
as I hear and obey
He is the
fine shepherd
and He shows me
the way.
He guides every step
never leads me astray.
Should I ever listen
to voices in all
position?
Oh, so am I
placing his care
so right that Jehovah
is my Savior
with things of life.
Certainly,
that's how we all feel.
Never do we want
to stray from the great shepherd
Jesus Christ
as He leads us through the end of this
trouble system of things.
May this song
encourage us to stick
close to Jehovah's
organization?
No matter what
for imperfect humans
unity rarely comes easily.
In our following video
please note how the governing body
has always worked
to maintain unity
in behalf of the world
wide brotherhood.
I'm getting along all right.
There's a little tumor
here in the brain
which the doctors are treating
and whatever comes
together
but it has been
wonderful to work
with you all these years
and I enjoy the tremendously
and I'm very grateful
to Jehovah I could come
to this meeting
and move ahead.
Like CT Russell before him,
Brother Nor had an
exceptional gift for organizing
the kingdom work.
That's at the stage for the amazing growth,
that the organization experienced
during the closing decades
of the 20th century.
Nathan Nor died on June
8, 1977.
Note what brother Albert Schroeder
a fellow member of the governing body
wrote about him.
As the society's principal
administrator, there have come to be
over 90 branches.
Brother Nor has proved to be the right
theocratic entrepreneur
for this period of Jehovah's
Brother Nor helped to clarify
the role of the governing body
and its committees.
Headquarters representatives were sent
out to various branches.
Branches were better organized.
Bodies of elders were
appointed in various congregations.
Training programs were instituted.
Schools were established.
Due to the organizational growth
the number of conventions
that the governing body
had been held worldwide
now numbered into the hundreds.
And the governing body members
wanted to be present
at as many of those conventions as possible.
For example, at the 1969
Peace on Earth International Convention
a governing body member
would fly to the convention city
for the opening day,
catch a flight to another convention city
and then return to the original city
so that he could speak
to the convention.
80s, many existing branches
with printing and shipping capabilities
needed to expand.
To ensure that the worldwide supply
of spiritual food
would flow uninterrupted.
No matter what may happen
on the world's scene.
At times there were more than
20 branch construction
or expansion projects
going on simultaneously.
And the governing body was very
convenient.
It was always very encouraging
to have contact
to the brothers of the governing body
to see their great zeal
and their loving interest
in the brothers behind the iron curtain.
1977,
something outstanding happened.
In 1977
it was possible
for brothers Gerrus,
friends, and sit leak
to visit the brothers in Poland.
So it was the first time.
The first time
that members of the governing body
could visit the country
behind the iron curtain.
They spoke to many overseers,
pioneers,
and long-time witnessing
that was, of course, a wonderful experience.
One year after this visit,
brother Gerrus, along with
brother Henshel,
were able to get an appointment
with government officials
to promote a more tolerant attitude
of Jehovah's organization
and the work that Jehovah's Witnesses
were doing in Eastern Europe
and especially in Poland.
Now mind you, this was all taking place
some 10 years prior
to the fall of communism
in Eastern Europe.
They took various steps
in the process.
And brother Barry
of the governing body
had the opportunity
to hold a secret meeting
in the city of Leningrad
with brother Kosa,
who was responsible
for the activity in the territory.
Brother Kosa said that
he received tremendous encouragement
from that discussion
from the conversation with brother Barry.
And it was interesting
that it wasn't until after that meeting,
it helped to resist
decades of satanic efforts
to destroy their fate in Jehovah
and weaken the unity
and confidence in his organization.
And the members of the governing body
showed a very deep
appreciation for the brothers
who kept the communication
to the brothers
behind the iron curtain
because you have to imagine
how to get the spiritual food
they had to be willing
on a personal risk
to visit
and to bring the spirit of food
to the brothers there,
not just to the countries
right close
but down there
to the brothers
down there to Siberia.
In the second half
of the 1980s,
the iron curtain began to open up.
There was a sense of freedom
in the air.
The brothers in eastern Europe could
feel that freedom.
As government's
glanted permission, the governing body
organized conventions
in eastern-blocked countries
for example in Poland
and Czechoslovakia.
And when bands were lifted
the members of the governing body
travelled for many times
then in all the countries
it was possible
Poland, Hungary, Romania
Czechoslovakia, Russia, Ukraine,
and to the Baltic states
and also to Belarus.
In November 1989,
the Berlin Wall
came down.
This was a great turning point
in the history of the 20th century
but it also meant
greater freedom for our brothers.
The governing body
sprung into action.
They wanted to go
and accelerate the work there.
So brother-gerus
they just skyrocketed.
In the fall of 1989
brothers Milton Henshel
and Theodor Gerus had the
unique opportunity of visiting
the brothers in the Soviet Union
for the first time.
The brothers really wanted to study
the situation on the ground.
They met with all of the
elders,
circuit overseers,
district overseers,
and members of the country committee.
So it is on Europe.
1991 was the
stage for three
international conventions
with the subject
lovers of godly freedom.
But of course,
besides these international conventions
other open conventions.
So not in secret.
No.
Open conventions were held
in the first time
in the former Soviet Union
in Estonia
in Russia
and Ukraine.
Just imagine,
after decades of such difficult
persecution, we experience
the opportunity to be together
with our worldwide brotherhood
and to see the brothers from the
governing body.
It was an unforgettable time.
It was the happiest of times.
It was super.
One outstanding convention
was held in Zagreb.
Yes.
It was a loving
and courageous decision
of the governing body
to go there
despite the uncertainty
of the political situation
in the country
and maybe coming up
a civil war.
This convention
was the only public event
that was allowed
by the government in the city
of Zagreb.
All other public events
were canceled.
But the convention of
Jehovah's Witnesses
was not.
Police men and soldiers
signed to keep security
in order in the stadium.
They were astonished that
servants,
cohorts,
souvenirs,
and even more.
At those international conventions
in Eastern Europe,
members of the governing body
gave the final motivating talk.
And those talks
given less than five months
after the thrill of obtaining
legal recognition
for our work in the Soviet Union
strengthened and encouraged our brothers
for trials they would face
in the future.
It's plain to see
the no-well the appearance
of the flock.
They poured themselves
out like a drink offering
in order to take good care
of the sheep.
The same deep love
and tender concern for you.
The sheep of the great shepherd's flock
has been evident
throughout modern times
right down to this day.
What striking evidence
of unity
among them roiled
with ethnic strife,
hatred, and violence?
Our brothers
enjoyed a peaceful convention
that rightly impressed
the authorities.
Our faith in the fine shepherd
and his father
surely is being rewarded now
and will be even more
abundantly rewarded
in the future.
Perhaps like many,
they were really
very humble.
Daniel, a lifetime of faith,
what moving lessons
and awesome depictions
of visions and events
from his life?
Would you like to take a look
behind the scenes
and see what went into making it?
Less enjoy a tour
of some of the work
that helped bring this
Visions, amazing scenery and architecture, all of it serves to teach readers about the
times we live in now and how we can faithfully serve Jehovah.
The team that made Daniel a lifetime of faith had to portray these amazing things on film.
How did they do it?
Early concept art was made to help in the development of the many visual effects scenes.
The architecture and aesthetics of Babylon were quite different from what the Israelites
were used to.
The sets needed to be designed in a way that helped convey what it was like being captured
and brought to a foreign land.
The production design and sets and props departments built 360 degree sets which made
for an immersive environment.
All the other ones are an able to make these predictions.
You're able to do so.
Many costumes and props were carefully handmade for the production.
Spearheads were hand forged.
Most of the filming was done at Mount Ebo Studios in Brewster, New York.
Some additional scenes were filmed in nearby locations
and in Florida.
You need to rest.
Several miniature sets were built, including a cigarette, and then actors were filmed
in front of a green screen and inserted into the final shots.
As filming was completed, scenes were edited together, and the visual effects team went
to work on many specialized shots.
Digital models of people and animals were animated and combined with footage of real environments
to make scenes that would have been impossible to film otherwise.
For example, a digital model was made of the immense image in King Nebuchadnezzar's dream.
The team researched the characteristics of the actual materials described in the scriptures,
such as metals and rocks.
So that when the image falls, it appears realistic and believable.
Just look at the results of thousands of hours spent modeling, animating, simulating,
rendering, and compositing music and sound effects at the final touches.
What do you see, Jehovah asked the prophet Amos?
When Amos saw taught him important lessons in the drama, Daniel, a lifetime of faith,
what did you see, and more importantly, what did you learn?
What did you see, hours of hard work, dramatic visual effects, Bible characters brought to
life on screen?
Isn't it amazing how they all combine to make what happened thousands of years ago seem
so real, so vivid, and faith strengthening?
Now, let's enjoy this month's postcard.
As together, we climb the peaks of Switzerland.
About 70% of Switzerland is covered by mountains.
This tallest mountain rises to 4,634 meters, or over 15,000 feet above sea level.
Switzerland has four official languages, German, French, Italian, and Romance, a descendant
language of the Latin spoken in the Roman Empire.
Switzerland has beautiful waterfalls, glaciers, lakes, rivers, streams, and alpine meadows.
cows graze these meadows, and from their milk, the Swiss make about 450 varieties of delicious
cheese.
Switzerland is also well known for another treat, chocolate.
In fact, the Swiss consume more chocolate per person than people in any other country
in the world.
Since Switzerland didn't participate in World War I, it provided an ideal location to
establish the first central European branch office of Jehovah's Witnesses in the early
1920s.
During World War II, Jehovah's Witnesses from Switzerland helped to provide waters of
truth to other countries in Europe at great effort and cost.
Our brothers found ways to get spiritual food to their brothers in Nazi Germany.
After World War II, our Swiss brothers generously donated food, clothing, and money to support
the brotherhood as part of the first large-scale relief effort of our modern-day organization.
Today, over 19,000 witnesses across the country meet and 264 congregations, as well as 39
groups or pre-groups in 26 languages.
Even though a small percentage of the population speaks Rommage, our fellow witnesses make a concerted
effort to reach them in the language of their heart.
The 53 publishers in the Bayver congregation are busy spreading Kingdom Truth.
The Kingdom Hall in Bayver is located in the middle of the Alps at a height of some 1700
meters or 5500 feet, making it one of the highest Kingdom halls in all of Europe.
The congregation has 10 regular pioneers and also hosts an Italian group supported by
15 publishers.
The Bayver congregation sends its warm love to our worldwide family.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.